# 2023

I don’t remember much already. Not in a neurodegenerative sense. In the sense that each past moment is truly gone. Aja said that the dots always connect in retrospect, implying that remembering is some kind of defining process. Sharon exemplifies that. That makes me doubt, perhaps not looking back or recording is immature. I’ve been welcoming flashbacks but not putting much effort into taking notes. I just don’t feed the nostalgia or take pleasure in treasuring my memories.

I lost my mind quite a few times in 23. Most moments of peace seem to have come up when I’m out and about, especially when I’m running, cycling or working out. I run in circles every day, do the same pushup sets... I’ve found that movement in a familiar environment works better than having the most ergonomic setup, hacks and productivity routines. Somehow, the inner crippling self talk fades as I get in motion outside of the house (whatever the place). The feeling of being out there in the world literally takes me out to hit me and give me the release I need. The cryptic gifts of walking abound like Craig Mod called it. Outside is not always nice or easy. Weather, traffic, fatigue (sweat and squinting) are always there but they take a reasonable dimension. Not like in the house where they seem to be overwhelmingly important to consider.

As I’m reflecting on being a father during conversations lately, I found myself rehashing the following: the existential shift lies in the moments in between. The quiet reveals naturally a deep sense of peace with the world where I previously needed a ritualistic attention. The few mornings I wake up before him is sacred time.

Yann turned one. He is quite a dramatic baby. He is playing with us. No rules. His mood has been just as erratic as everyone around. Except that he gets over himself quickly. Witnessing a fully present baby going through his day is a grounding and maddening spectacle. He gets frustrated, smashes the thing, hurts himself, cries, then gets on to the next thing. I love him with the same intensity I hate him. The swings are wild. He is a baby, he has no responsibility – this might be the legalistic rethoric our civilization has enforced to guarantee survival and not reflecting the true feeling of parents.

It’s the lack of presence in everyday moments that really puts the sting in every missed opportunity for a good time due to that obsession with fixing (or getting to the bottom of) things. I have been trying so hard to get rid of the impulse verbalize every thoughts that comes to mind, or observation (like – oh, there is {thing} there) that when someone around doesn't realize they are doing just what I'm trying to avoid, it feels like a lack of respect for my time and attention. 

My lack of vocabulary and experience working through feelings is really a blessing I’ll never be able to thank my parents for. I don’t know how, neither do they but I seem to not really be able to sleep well at night. That might be the positive side of the Protestant work ethic... I give everything I have and that’s enough for me to feel like I’ve done my best.

The situation is fairly simple: when one is not feeling good, one is not mentally primed. Primed for everything, empathy being the big missing ability. That’s what makes being a parent tough. There’s always someone feeling gross, something rubbing somebody the wrong way. Everyone’s contrarian impulses went from a quirky pain in the butt to absolute torture. I choose how I feel - most of the time. Shit will go down, it’s just a matter of time. And yet BBL wants to act like if something is undesirable it should not ever happen again. That seems irrational. I feel like I'm lying to her when I say that I’m « working on it » - there’s no working on making sitting 6h a day behind a screen feel acceptable. And yet.

We are now in a big house. We got the things we worked and waited for. I'm sitting at our old kitchen counter that is now my desk. So much of the emotional load of this year makes this moment feel like we just transplanted ourselves into a new container but not really changed our environment. The world is still loud around us, perhaps I'm just too sensitive or I'm seeking catharsis in every transition. Zen principles surely have been working inside, coming in waves as the mood clears. All the clever, deep, or odd images fade into the blur of everyday to sometimes surface in the form of a visceral acknowledgement of how all this is completely pointless, and yet it is.

Facial hair has been a recurring proxy for my frustration around pragmatism and the desire for ultimate closure (this year, again). It would be really nice if rationality could clearly outline every decision and cycle for us. But that’s not how life seems to work. So I grow my beard. To a point where BBL nags me about it. A point where it periodically feels slightly uncomfortable physically and socially. I don’t do that as some kind of punishment but; rather, to increase my enjoyment of life. I will shave, I don’t know when nor why. The cycle will begin again. Like many other things in life there isn’t much satisfying closure, no “endgame”, no perfectly rational decision. Just cycles of change.

As an odd ending note: anything is everything, and nothing at the same time. House, hair, family, your own body, thoughts, work... all those things are concepts. Made up stuff that means something post-conception. We can’t live only in the pre-conception state. We’re civilized which means living according to many concepts. It is exhausting and not meaningful in and out of itself. “Simply being” is hard and easy at the same time. My forehead attests of the struggle. I don’t need to find the right words to describe my anything, my feelings included - I just don’t know that visceral yet.

It is what it is...
