# Notes.txt

I used to have a notes.txt file on my desktop where I was putting down all interesting nuggets, like a wine cellar, hoping for them to mature. Instead, they mostly degenerate and create a bunch of anxiety from doing nothing of it.

Nowadays, I "write" in Google Keep. Because it’s awful. I migrated my notes.txt file content in there and pinned it. I write a lot in the bathroom in general. Between meetings (sometimes during). I aim at poor writing hygiene because I do not want to truly get into it. I’m already interested/distracted by too many things. Yet, there seems to be something that keeps bringing me back to words.

Like most of us, I breed an uncomfortably large amount of thoughts daily. Most of them are unexceptional. Without restraint, I’d impulsively jot down most of them. To stay sane and avoid creating a generational supply of passable notes, I still uphold my thought-holding policy. 

"Never confuse an idea with its implementation" (Taylor Troesh) - I need to snip most thoughts in the bud. So here is my technique: No note = No next step = Freedom. If my ego can't let go of an idea, I give it an outlet on this site.

If I take note of something, there must be a next step. Until it dies. A note's death usually means, publication, archival, deletion, or merge.

Most of my active notes are lists.<br>
The rest (10 max) are drafts that sometimes go somewhere.

This blog is my archive, where my (successful) notes go to die.

---
Hopefully, this post should be the ultimate proof not to take anything written on this site seriously.